:memo: Update DNS configuration instructions (#2447)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/domains/steps/tls.md

---
title: "Optional: Configure a third-party TLS certificate"
weight: 3
sidebarTitle: "Custom TLS"
---

Platform.sh automatically provides all production environments with standard TLS certificates issued by [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).
No further action is required to use TLS-encrypted connections beyond [specifying HTTPS routes](../../define-routes/https.md).

Alternatively, you can provide your own third-party TLS certificate from the TLS issuer of your choice.
Consult your TLS issuer for instructions on how to generate an TLS certificate.

A custom certificate isn't necessary for development environments.
Platform.sh automatically provides wildcard certificates that cover all `*.platform.sh` domains, including development environments.

All kinds of certificates are supported including:

* domain-validated certificates,
* extended validation (EV) certificates,
* high-assurance (HA) certificates,
* wildcard certificates.

The use of HA or EV certificates is the main reason why you may wish to use a third-party issuer rather than the default certificate.

> If you use wildcard routes, you need a custom certificate.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: I feel like the order of causation is somewhat confused here in that you can't use a wildcard route until you get a custom certificate, so it's not about you already using it, if that makes sense. Perhaps this?

```suggestion
Another reason you might need a custom certificate is for wildcard routes.
```

Reviewer: Or this, given that this is where I'd expect the detailed information?
```suggestion
Let's Encrypt certificates also don't support wildcard routes,
so you need a custom certificate if you want to use one.
```

### Add a custom certificate

> You can add a custom certificate by using the [command line interface](../../administration/cli/_index.md) or in the [Console](/administration/web/_index.md).

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
You can add a custom certificate using the [CLI](../../administration/cli/_index.md) or in the [Console](../../administration/web/_index.md).
```

> Your certificate has to use the "PKCS#1" format and start with `BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY`. If it doesn't, see [how to change the private key format](#how-to-change-the-private-key-format)

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
Your certificate has to use the PKCS #1 format and start with `BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY`.
If it doesn't, see how to [change the private key format](#how-to-change-the-private-key-format).
```

> To add your custom certificate:

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
To add your custom certificate, follow these steps:
```

    ```

    You can optionally include intermediate SSL certificates by adding <code>--chain {{<variable "PATH_TO_FILE" >}}</code> for each one.

2. Redeploy your production environment with the following command:

    ```bash
    platform environment:redeploy
    ```

<--->

---
title=In the Console
file=none
highlight=false
---

1. Open the project where you want to add a certificate.
2. Click {{< icon settings >}} **Settings**.
3. Click **Certificates**.
4. Click **+ Add**.
5. Fill in your private key, public key certificate, and (optionally) intermediate SSL certificates.
6. Click **Add Certificate**.
7. Access your production environment.
8. Click {{< icon more >}} **More**.
9. Click **Redeploy**.

{{< /codetabs >}}

### Change the private key format

Your certificate's private key needs to be in PKCS #1 format, which means it starts with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----`.
If it has `-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----` instead, it's in PKCS #8 format and you need to change it.

To convert the private key from PKCS #8 to PKCS #1 format, run the following command:

```bash

> openTLS rsa -in {{<variable "PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE" >}}.key -out {{<variable "PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE" >}}.rsa.key

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: Generally, the path to a file includes the extension, so this way of presenting it might be slightly confusing.

Run the following command:

<!-- This is in HTML to get the variable shortcode to work properly -->
<div class="highlight">
  <pre class="chroma"><code class="language-bash" data-lang="bash">platform domain:add -p {{<variable "PROJECT_ID" >}} {{<variable "DOMAIN" >}} --cert {{<variable "PATH_TO_CERTIFICATE_FILE" >}} --key {{<variable "PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE" >}}
</code></pre></div>

For example:

```bash
platform domain:add -p abcdefg123456 secure.example.com --cert /etc/TLS/private/secure-example-com.crt --key /etc/TLS/private/secure-example-com.key
```

> You can optionally include intermediate SSL certificates by adding `--chain` {{<variable "PATH_TO_FILE" >}} for each one.

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
You can optionally include intermediate SSL certificates by adding <code>--chain {{<variable "PATH_TO_FILE" >}}</code> for each one.
```

<--->

---
title=In the Console
file=none
highlight=false
---

> 1. Open the [Console](https://console.platform.sh)
> 2. Click the tile of the project you want to access where you want to add a certificate.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: The context is already given by the tab.
```suggestion
1. Open the project where you want to add a certificate.
```

3. Click {{< icon settings >}} **Settings**.
4. Click **Certificates**.
5. Click **+ Add**.
6. Fill in your private key, public key certificate, and (optionally) intermediate SSL certificates.
7. Click **Add Certificate**.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> 

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: Seems like the part about redeploying (if still true) should be part of the tabs since there's also a way to do it in the console.

Reviewer: Either testing or asking would be good.

platform environment:redeploy
```

> Your site is now live and accessible to the world as soon as the DNS propagates.

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: That's not what this doc is about. This is about the certificate. It can be live before doing the doc. (Also, DNS doesn't propagate)

> If something isn't working see the [troubleshooting guide](/domains/troubleshoot.md) for common issues.
> If that doesn't help, [contact support](../../overview/get-support.md).
> 

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: I'm not sure these are really relevant to the certificate.
```suggestion
```

> ### How to change the private key format

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
### Change the private key format
```

> Your certificate's private key has to be in PKCS#1 style, and start with `BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY`.
> If it starts with `BEGIN PRIVATE KEY`, it's PKCS#8 and bundled with the identifier for key type.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
Your certificate's private key needs to be in PKCS #1 format, which means it has `BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY` near the start.
If it has `BEGIN PRIVATE KEY` instead, it's in PKCS #8 format and you need to change it.
```

> To convert the RSA key from PKCS#8 to PKCS#1, run:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
To convert the key from PKCS #8 to PKCS #1 format, run the following command:
```

```bash

> openTLS rsa -in private.key -out private.rsa.key

Reviewer: :question: Not with variables? I'd guess these are the defaults, but are they necessarily followed? Is it necessary to rename the key?
